the word of the Lord that came to
Jeremiah concerning the droughts Judah
mourns at her gates languish they mourn
for the land and the cry of Jerusalem
has gone up their Nobles have sent their
lads for water they went to the cisterns
and found no water they returned with
their vessels empty they were ashamed
and confounded and covered their heads
because the ground is parched for there
was no rain in the land the ploughman
were ashamed they covered their heads
yes the deer also gave birth in the
field but left because there was no
grass in the wild donkeys stood in the
desolate heights they sniffed at the
wind like jackals their eyes failed
because there was no grass Oh Lord
though our iniquities testify against us
do it for your name's sake for our
backslidings are many we have sinned
against you
oh the hope of Israel his savior in time
of trouble why should you be like a
stranger in the land and like a traveler
who turns aside to tarry for a night why
should you be like a man
astonished like a mighty one who cannot
save yet you our Lord are in our midst
and we are called by your name do not
leave us thus says the Lord to this
people thus they have loved to wander
they have not restrained their feet
therefore the Lord does not accept them
he will remember their iniquity now and
punish their sins then the Lord said to
me do not pray for this people for their
good when they fast I will not hear
their cry and when they offer burnt
offering and grain offering I will not
accept them but I will consume them by
the sword by the famine and by the
pestilence then I said O Lord God behold
the prophets say to them you shall not
see the sword nor shall you have famine
but I will give you a short piece in
this place and the Lord said to me the
prophets prophesy lies in my name I have
not sent them commanded them nor spoken
to them they prophesied to you a false
vision divination a worthless thing and
the deceit of their heart therefore thus
says the Lord concerning the prophets
who prophesy in my name whom I did not
send and who say sword and famine shall
not be in this land
by sword and famine those profits shall
be consumed and the people to whom they
prophesy shall be cast out in the
streets of Jerusalem because of the
famine and the sword they will have no
one to bury them them nor their wives
their sons nor their daughters for I
will pour their wickedness on them
therefore you shall say this word to
them let my eyes flow with tears night
and day and let them not cease for the
virgin daughter of my people has been
broken with a mighty stroke with a very
severe blow if I go out to the field
then behold those slain with the sword
and if I enter the city then behold
those sick from famine yes both prophet
and priest go about in a land they do
not know have you utterly rejected Judah
as your soul loathes ioan I have you
stricken us so that there is no healing
for us we look for peace but there was
no good and for the time of healing and
there was trouble
we acknowledge Oh Lord our wickedness
and the iniquity of our fathers for we
have sinned against you do not abhor us
for your name's sake do not disgrace the
throne of your glory
remember do not break your covenant with
us are there any among the idols of the
nations that can cause rain
but when the heavens give showers are
you not he or Lord our God therefore we
will wait for you since you have made
all these